Parent in this lecture we're going to go ahead and add in these light refractions onto a bottle.
So if we look at a reference over here you see this blue and dark gray area on the bottle.
What that is is that's a light being refracted into the glass and around the bottle.
So let's go ahead and paint that in first.
We want to add a new layer that's underneath our highlight layer but above our liquid contents layer
so the layer we're on right now has that shadow and that's the very top layer of our liquid contents.
And the next one is our glass highlight.
So we're going to add a layer right in between those.
Next we're going to go ahead and select this blue in here.
That's its color right there.
So it's almost an aqua green then we're going to go ahead and start painting in.
So using my brush with a soft edge and bringing my brush opacity down to about 2 percent we're going
to go ahead and start painting in any areas that we see now should be blue and you're going to have
this blue area anywhere where the glass is really close to each other and you can see the glass on the
other side.
So for example right here when you look at this glass the glass on the other side of it is really close
to it.
And so it's going to create that blueness seam with over here.
But you're seeing the blue part because there's also glass as curves around right on the other side.
So you're seeing two layers of glass and that's what's creating the blue.
Go ahead and keep filling us and
great.
So once we have our soft layer in now we can go ahead and shrink our brushes down a little bit more
and bring a brush opacity up to 4 percent.
We can go ahead and really start adding that in.
And I always remember you can always take away and add more.
So don't be too worried about messing things up.
So here's a really good example of where I went a little too much.
Over here there's not really much blue.
So I can go ahead and take my race tool and erase got away.
All right.
Next we're going to go ahead and grab a little bit lighter version of this so we'll come up like so
I'm going to come a little bit more towards my blues the summer of out there.
We're going to go ahead and add a little bit of this and just make it a little bit more interesting
so it's not just one color blue
I'll bring my brush opacity down back to 20 percent
now I'm kind of losing my curve right here.
Someone to go ahead and switch over to my race tool again and go ahead and erase a little bit of that
away until I start to introduce that curve back in.
And I also want to thin it out a little bit starting to get to wide and I want it to be thinner
great now I want to introduce a little bit darker of a color.
So you see in here we got a little bit more darker of a blue.
So I'm going to select this color down here and then I'm going to darken that so bring that down to
about there using my brush to I'm going to go ahead and start painting that darker color.
I'm still at 20 percent opacity so I can really start layering this in.
Now that's still not dark enough for me.
So I'm going to go ahead and select an even darker version of that paint a little bit of that in
going to add a little bit of this on this edge also.
So and then a little bit over here to
now I'm noticing up here at the top of my bottle it's a little bit more blue than Aqua.
So I'm going to go ahead and select my mid color and then I'm going to select a more blue version of
that so I'll come up to about there and maybe make it a little bit more saturated and then I can go
ahead and start painting Adam
now I'm noticing that down here at the bottom we're kind of losing this edge on our bottle.
So I'm going to switch back up to my highlight layer and then using my race tool.
I'm going to go ahead and sort of erase that back in.
And lastly I want to introduce a little bit more of an aqua color down here.
So I want to switch back down to my blue layer and then I'm going to grab more of an aqua color and
I want it to be pretty saturated and pretty bright.
So probably about there.
And I'm going to go ahead and paint that in in this area like so not just introduces a little bit more
of an interesting color in there.
I'm also noticing along the bottom of this edge of our stand.
It's there's not really any highlight so I'm going to come back up to my highlight layer and using my
raise to I'll go ahead in a raceway this bottom area and expose the dark area
now.
Lastly we want to add a nice white haze to our bottle because when you look at glass it tends to make
things a little bit lighter when you look through them.
And in areas like this right here and this right here it's going to be completely transparent which
will be unnatural.
So let's go ahead and add a new layer and we're going to add this below our blue layer.
So that way our white haze doesn't cover any of this blue.
We want it to cover this transparent area.
And also some of this yellow liquid.
So we're going to go ahead and select our bottle shape and then we're going to fill that in with the
color white.
Next we're going to go ahead and bring that opacity down.
We're going to bring it down really low probably to about five percent.
Perfect.
So now that just adds that extra haze.
So if I turn that layer off you see there's a tiny little difference.
Now lastly what I want to do is I want to add a new layer above this and using my brush tool and making
sure I'm on a soft edged brush.
I'm going to bring that brush size up quite a bit.
I'm going to add one big highlight right here like so.
And I have my brush opacity down to 20 percent so it just barely adds it in.
All right.
That brings us to the end of this lecture.
So in this lecture you learn how to add this blue area in.
That makes your glass look a lot more realistic.
And all it is is it's just a fraction of the image and that's coming from behind it and it's traveling
through the glass and coming out the other side.
Thanks for watching.
And I look forward to seeing you in the next lecture.